RISC-V is a free and open-source Instruction Set Architecture (ISA) for computer processors

Basic job of a CPU: execute instructions
Instruction: like a sentence: operations (verbs) applied to operands (objects) processed in sequence
Different CPUs implement different sets of instructions. The set of instructions a particular CPU implements is an "Instruction Set Architecture" (ISA)
	Examples: ARM (cell phones), Intel x86 (i9, i7, i5, i3), RISC-V, ...

Instruction Set Architectures:
	- Early trend was to add more and more instructions to new CPUs to do elaborate operations (CISC)
		VAX architecture had an instruction to multiply polynomials!

	- RISC philosophy - Reduced Instruction Set Computing
		Keep the instruction set small and simple, makes it easier to build fast hardware
		Let software do complicated operations by composing simpler ones

Instruction set for a particular architecture (e.g. RISC-V) is represented by the assembly language
Each line of assembly code represents one instruction for the computer (to execute)

Assembly Variables = Registers:
	Unlike HLL like C or Java, assembly cannot use variables (to keep hardware simple)

	Assembly operands are registers ...
		limited number of special locations build directly into the hardware
		operations can only be performed on these
		since directly in hardware -> very fast (faster than 0.25 ns)

	Drawback: since registers are deep in the hardware (next to the execution cores), there is a predetermined number of them
		-> code must be carefully put  together to efficiently use them
	32 registers in RISC-V (smaller is faster, but too small is bad)
	Each RISC-V register is 32 bits wide (in RV32 variant)
		Group of 32 bits called a word

	Registers are numbered from 0 to 31
		referred to by number x0 - x31
	x0 is special, always holds value zero (zero appears very often in code and want it to be close to the processor)
		-> only 31 registers available
	Register can be referred to by number or name

	Unlike C, in assembly, the registers have no type
		operation (verb) determines how register contents are treated

Make your code more readable: comments (# in RISC-V)

Addition and Subtraction of Integers:
	verb	destination		source1		source2
	add 	x1, 			x2, 		x3
	sub 	x1, 			x2, 		x3

	More complex operations?
		e.g. a = b + c + d - e
		-> break into multiple instructions
			add x10, x1, x2
			add x10, x10, x3
			add x10, x10, x4
		-> a single line of C may break up into several lines of RISC-V

Numerical Constants - "Immediates"
	They appear often in code, so there are special instructions for them

	- Add immediate:
		addi x1, x2, 10
		f = g + 10 (in C)

	There is no subtract immediate in RISC-V, because we don't need it
		RISC wants to minimize operations!
		We can instead: add x1, x2, -10

Register zero:
	One particular immediate, the number 0, appears very often in code
	Register x0 is "hard-wired" to value 0
		e.g. add x1, x2, x0
		this simply moves the content of register x2 to register x1

	If you try to use x0 as a destination, it will do no nothing! It is defined in hardware
